---
layout:            post
title:             "A Survey of Opinion Mining in Arabic: A Comprehensive System Perspective Covering Challenges and Advances in Tools, Resources, Models, Applications and Visualizations"
menutitle:         "A Survey of Opinion Mining in Arabic: A Comprehensive System Perspective Covering Challenges and Advances in Tools, Resources, Models, Applications and Visualizations"
category:          Publications
author:            asallab
tags:              
---

[Gilber Badaro, Ramy Baly, Hazem Hajj, Wassim El-Hajj, Khaled Bashir Shaaban, Nizar Habash, Ahmad A. Al Sallab, Ali Hamdi, “A Survey of Opinion Mining in Arabic: A Comprehensive System Perspective Covering Challenges and Advances in Tools, Resources, Models, Applications and Visualizations”, ACM Transactions on Asian and Low Resources Language Information Processing (TALLIP), 2019](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3295662)

Opinion-mining or sentiment analysis continues to gain interest in industry and academics. While there has been significant progress in developing models for sentiment analysis, the field remains an active area of research for many languages across the world, and in particular for the Arabic language, which is the fifth most-spoken language and has become the fourth most-used language on the Internet. With the flurry of research activity in Arabic opinion mining, several researchers have provided surveys to capture advances in the field. While these surveys capture a wealth of important progress in the field, the fast pace of advances in machine learning and natural language processing (NLP) necessitates a continuous need for a more up-to-date literature survey. The aim of this article is to provide a comprehensive literature survey for state-of-the-art advances in Arabic opinion mining. The survey goes beyond surveying previous works that were primarily focused on classification models. Instead, this article provides a comprehensive system perspective by covering advances in different aspects of an opinion-mining system, including advances in NLP software tools, lexical sentiment and corpora resources, classification models, and applications of opinion mining. It also presents future directions for opinion mining in Arabic. The survey also covers latest advances in the field, including deep learning advances in Arabic Opinion Mining. The article provides state-of-the-art information to help new or established researchers in the field as well as industry developers who aim to deploy an operational complete opinion-mining system. Key insights are captured at the end of each section for particular aspects of the opinion-mining system giving the reader a choice of focusing on particular aspects of interest.